well ladies and gentlemen good afternoon
to you what an absolute pleasure to be
here quick question who here owns a
Ferrari seriously not a single one a
couple of weeks ago I saw something that
you don't see every single day it was an
accident between a Ferrari and a VW Golf
by the time that I arrived the VW Golf
was on one side of the road and it was a
little shorter than it was meant to be
originally and on the other side of the
road was this what used to be a six foot
three gleaming red Ferrari but was now a
four foot two slightly more crunchy
Ferrari and you drive past that and you
think to yourself that's a really bad
day for some wealthy individual and it's
not something you see every day so I
pulled my car over I put a little fit a
comment on Facebook and I said let's
have a moment of silence for the mighty
fallen
never again to go from nought to a
hundred in six point three or three
point six seconds and the reaction that
I got from some of my friends on
Facebook was interesting people said
they didn't say things like what a shame
what a pity our what a loss they said
serves him right and the hatred just
kept on coming one comment after another
how can he drive a car like that in a
country like this our roads are wrong
for it he was probably drunk one person
stopped just short of accusing him of
being a child molester and it was
fascinating to me just to see the level
of hatred aimed at this Ferrari driver
now here's the interesting bit about it
the only information that I put on
Facebook was there has been an accident
between a golf and a Ferrari that's it
we don't know who was wrong we don't
know if it was the golf driver who made
the mistake we don't know if a dog
didn't run across the road and caused
this thing but what was interesting is
it showed up a belief system that most
of us don't even know we have it's a
bias against the rich it's fascinating
now in a room like this we are all
studying and working toward building
careers building futures becoming high
net-worth individuals let me ask you a
question do you reckon you can become a
high net worth individual at the same
time as hating wealthy people
it's a self-limiting belief and it
actually gets in the way but what's
fascinating is that the kind of thinking
that is handed down to us from
generation to generation is invisible it
was once beautiful wasn't it and I'm not
the only person who's actually seen this
in motion anybody here watch Top Gear
yes yeah absolutely
Top Gear fans join me for a moment here
the rest of you can just go to sleep
Jeremy Clarkson says in the United
States you watch a person drive by in a
Bentley and the reaction is one day I'll
be in one of those and he says it's
different in Britain he says in Britain
you watch a guy drive past in the
Bentley and you say one day I'll have
him out of that
that's a bit more sinister isn't it a
little bit darker and it's really
interesting because particularly in
South Africa we have spent decades
trying to unravel a belief system about
racism that's been handed down from
generation to generation but we are not
aware of other beliefs that are handed
down to us particularly beliefs about
wealthy people and here we all are
chasing these goals and chasing these
lives while at the same time feeling
uncomfortable about talking about money
or talking about wealthy people as
though they are obviously evil they come
from the devil let's take a look at how
this thinking is created how its
generated how its handed down from
generation to generation and how it can
stop you from achieving your goals the
point is to unravel it get it out of our
minds X I sit be rid of it be free of it
so that we can actually chase the goals
that we have in life and become all God
intended us to be in my family if you go
back two generations to my grandmother
she used to work at an English manor
house in Manchester is anyone here ever
watched the show on TV quite a quite
amateur show called Downton Abbey anyone
seen it no okay the basic idea is you've
got two sets of people you've got the
higher class folks who own this Abbey
they're kind of semi royalty in the in
the United Kingdom then you've got the
people downstairs who run everything
they do the cooking they do the sweeping
the cleaning it's the the staff my
grandmother was part of the manor house
but she was not the people upstairs she
was the people downstairs she was one of
the maid servants who helped to keep
this manor house clean and if you have
to see pictures of the way that they
dressed at the time it was the full
old-style regalia she had the little
apron and the little maids outfit and
the little feather duster and it's
everything we think of a slightly kinky
today but of course at the time it was
nothing like that this was a woman who
worked incredibly hard from dusk till
dawn this was a woman whose back was
sawed more often than not this was a
woman who if you ever met her and put
your hands on her hands you'd find
nothing but calluses and most
importantly this was a woman who
had no voice in the face of authority
because the thinking back then for both
the lower classes and for women was keep
quiet don't make waves be a cog in the
system we don't want to know that you
exist we just want to see that your job
gets done and this is the kind of
thinking that is then handed down from
generation to generation and what's
interesting is that when my dad came
along my grandmother was looking for the
best advice she could possibly give to
him about work and wealth and how to
make your way in the world
she went rummaging around in her mind
and she came up with this Jim and it was
the advice she gave to my dad she said
my son get a trade that way you will
never starve to death who here has heard
some variation of that advice yeah yeah
a lot of us have heard things down those
lines there's nothing wrong with getting
a trade you can become a plumber and you
can become very wealthy as a plumber but
listen to the second half of that
sentence did she say so that you can
become all god intends you to be is it
so that you can let your light shine so
that you can become wealthy so that you
can achieve goals no it's so that you
never starve to death the thinking comes
from a place of desperation and that's
the thinking that's handed down
generation to generation and the weird
part is it's completely invisible to us
we hear this advice and we think it's
right and we think it's normal now I'm
not picking on my grandmother she was
doing the best she could with the ideas
that she had without perhaps knowing how
much damage it can do to future
generations take a look at the building
you see behind me there that is an
Industrial Revolution era factory it's
about a hundred maybe 120 years ago
what other building that we have today
looks very similar to that factory out
loud what do you think
hospitals what else schools schools yeah
schools and here's an interesting one
r-run according to the Industrial
Revolution age of thinking picture this
for a second you drop your kids off at
school or you as a child or dropped off
at school and you line up in neat lines
and the foreman I mean the teacher blows
the whistle or rings the bell and in
your neat lines you go to your
workstation and you sit down you sit
down at your little workstation and you
work for a number of hours and then the
foreman I mean the teacher blows the
whistle rings the bell and you take out
your little lunch box and you can have
some food then the whistle goes again
you go back into your work station you
sit down it is run according to an
industrial revolution era Factory why
because we are training human beings to
be cogs in a system and we're still
doing it hey now I'm not picking on
schools here the point is not to say
that schools are badly run the point is
just to say we have thinking that is
invisible to us we are trained to
thought and we are culture alized to act
in certain ways that no longer make
sense in the modern economy the old
world thinking says become a cog in a
system fit in don't make waves and if
you're a perfect cog you'll get you a
little bit of money at the end of the
day and you can go home that thinking
will keep you poor so what are some of
the alternatives well that's what I'd
like to look at with you here today
I like to call that style of thinking
the wheelbarrow way it basically goes
like this it's like the parents get hold
of their child the young son the young
daughter they say my son my daughter you
are young and strong you must go out
into the world and earn coins here's how
you do it pick up your wheelbarrow load
it full of bricks and for every hour
that you push your wheelbarrow you will
get one coin if you want a second coin
you have to push your wheelbarrow for a
second hour now we think like that we go
the only way to earn coins is to work
for a set number of hours so let me go
and get a job and be dead
on a boss now you work your set number
of hours every day you push your
wheelbarrow for your set number of hours
and a horrible thing starts to happen
you start to realize that you can't
quite afford the car you're not quite
breaking even with the kids and their
education and the debit orders and the
bonds and so on so what do you do you go
back to the thinking that was handed
down to you and you say if I'm not
getting enough coins what do I have to
do I have to push a second wheelbarrow
in the evenings to get more coins that
kind of thinking keeps families in
generational cycles of poverty if you
take nothing else away from today this
is the one principle that is the most
important do not tie your earning to the
number of hours you work you've got to
separate those two and I'll show you how
today but so long as we think a number
of hours equals a number of coins we are
in financial trouble because as a human
being you only have so many hours in the
day the wealthy person's epiphany the
way of breaking out of this idea is this
dump the bricks in your wheelbarrow get
rid of them
load your wheelbarrow up with gold in
other words for every hour that you push
that wheelbarrow you need to raise the
value of your work earn more coins per
hour not work more hours in order to get
more coins so that make sense okay of
course that raises some interesting
questions are how the heck do you do
that there are definitely ways of doing
it what are some of the things that our
families teach us about work and about
wealth and about how economies work and
once again it's not to say that they are
trying to do damage in our lives they
are doing the best they can with the
thinking handed down to them but the
world has changed what are some of the
things that they teach us work hard
there's nothing wrong with working hard
I believe in working hard but the goal
is actually to make money not to work
hard and there is a very big difference
there in certain companies people think
you are fantastic if you are working
hard not necessarily if you are being
effective so what they do is people make
a show
of the number of hours that they work
how they work over weekend how they part
of every meeting they're not necessarily
getting stuff done but they're showing
that they're working hard yeah that's
the difference the next thing is play it
safe play it safe
wealthy people take risks all the time
the middle classes and poor folks take
no risks at all in fact I heard a phrase
the other day that's just been
resonating in my mind that says the
middle classes are paralyzed by doubt
they are secure to the point of
paralysis they do not take risks
and of course the thinking handed down
there is get a safe job and let someone
else take care of you be like everyone
else here's an obvious thing that has to
be said if you be like everyone else
you're gonna earn like everyone else if
you choose the safe route in life you
are choosing to earn less than you
potentially could so today let's talk
about the idea of recession versus
abundance
you've probably heard I mean it's all
over the world news and it's in every
newspaper every blog everywhere you go
the recession that we've been talking
about that kicked in in 2008 what's
interesting about recessions is not
what's going on in the world what's
going on in your Innerspace up here
there are for example speakers in my
industry who have decided that there is
a recession and have earned a heck of a
lot less as a result then there are
other speakers was a gibe particular guy
in the states named randy gage who said
in 2008 the world issued an invitation
to go into recession and I politely
declined and he says he's had his best
year ever every single year since then
because what happens is when we are told
that there is a recession we stop acting
in ways that generate money because we
believe that people aren't buying we
haven't discovered a recession we have
bought into the concept of a recession
there are certain companies who have had
their best years ever since right the
way through this recession because they
simply don't believe in it today I'd
like to share with you a tip
eight ideas eight ways of overhauling
your thinking that have to do with work
and wealth and my promise to you is that
they are going to be uncomfortable I
hear to make people feel good but this
stuff is massively important it's
important because we are still being
taught the ways to work that are
outdated the world changes but we're
still practicing the old ways if you do
do the Twitter thing you're more than
welcome to tweet about it as you go
along I see a couple of people grabbing
their phones when you see the eight yeah
if you want to connect with me on
Twitter use at Douglas Kruger yeah you
can say this guy is talking a load of
rubbish or this is a valuable idea
whatever but I warn you I'm going to
close the doors and check every tweet
before I let you out I will find you
epiphany number one resenting the
wealthy says more about us than it does
about the wealthy there's a phrase that
my family always used to use and when I
was young we struggled really really
badly with poverty we had some
incredibly rough winters one that I
remember we went through the whole of
July with our power cut off we had our
local church bringing food baskets to
our house and I lived in a pretty decent
neighborhood and we were the odd ones
out so it's quite rough to go through
that sort of thing and to have someone
else feeding your family when your own
parents can't it was a difficult time to
go through but what's most interesting
to me now looking back on that time
period is the kind of language that my
family used around the dinner table has
your family ever used a phrase like how
the other half live when they talk about
rich people yeah you know what it's like
it's like rich people are a different
species the way that I'd like you to
look at the difference between where you
are and wealth is I want you to look at
it as a curve because if it is a curve
you can move along that curve you can go
from where you are now to your goals but
if you buy into that thinking that says
rich people are just a different species
then instead of a curve there's just a
chasm there's a hole there is an
absolute void between where you are and
where you
to be and if you don't believe that it's
possible to move along that transition
you don't act in ways that start to move
you there the first the starting point
in becoming a high net worth individual
is the belief that it is possible that a
wealthy person is not a different
species they're just further along on a
continuum they have more education about
what brings in money and how to achieve
goals than what you currently have and
that's okay because that represents hope
that means you can learn these things
you can do them resenting the wealthy
says more about us than it does about
the wealthy we often think about wealthy
people as they're obviously evil they're
obviously corrupt they obviously stepped
on people's faces to get where they are
now Forbes magazine paints a different
picture of that they take the
highest-earning individuals on the
planet and they look at how much they
give the stats bear out that wealthy
people give more per capita than anyone
else we're not just talking about more
money because they actually have more
we're talking about more per individual
in percentage form the idea that wealth
people are wealthy people are obviously
stingy obviously evil is not borne out
by statistics yeah of course there's
obviously the odd jerk you will meet the
odd horrible rich person they're out
there certainly in their numbers but by
and large it is not a valid rule that's
number one
number two there are three things that
money is not money is not the root of
all evil that's not what the verse says
what does the verse say the love of
money and it also doesn't say is the
root of all evil it says something down
the lines of is the root of many kinds
of evil now think about what that belief
would do to Christian families people of
faith if it becomes a locked-in belief
and it's handed down generation to
generation money is the root of all evil
okay so if I chase it there's something
wrong with me
you can't hold that belief and become
wealthy the two do not work together and
that's one of those things that we need
to check out it's a misquote of the
original verse and it's damaging it does
a lot of harm particularly to people of
faith money is the first thing money is
not the root of all evil
the second thing money is not
embarrassing could you be rich with a
straight face time to face that question
because you are on a career trajectory
that can potentially make you very
wealthy could you handle it what kind of
human being would you be once you get
there yeah wealth simply makes you an
amplified version of yourself so what
are you if you're a horrible person a
rich version of you is going to be a
horrible person who's able to do more if
you're a good person who likes to help
others a rich version of you will be an
amplified version of that their money is
not embarrassing and if we are
embarrassed by money it changes a number
of things around the dinner table as a
family we won't talk about it no no the
middle classes like to talk about how
hard we're working but we never talked
about how to earn money or how to lose
money all of the rules of money you get
into the home of wealthy people and
that's what they talk to their children
about because they think it's important
money is not embarrassing we must talk
about it and number three you'll see
that little pool on the screen their
money is not finite it is not finite it
is not a limited resource if I take some
over here there's less for you money
doesn't work that way I have a friend
who studied to be a doctor she actually
qualified no in fact forgive me I got
that one wrong she is a qualified lawyer
passed her bar exam and what she then
did because she was married to a guy who
is quite wealthy she said I'm not going
to practice law because if I practice
law I get a salary and that means
slightly less money for other people
folks the thinking is wrong she has the
world's best intentions there but what
she's actually doing is failing to
contribute a little bit to the total
amount of money available work doesn't
take money out of a system it adds it to
it the more people we have running their
own businesses the more people we have
selling the more people we have doing
stuff the more there is for all bring
your skill to this country bring your
talent earn money for yourself the more
you have the more there is in totality
it's also very interesting because in
different countries they think about the
finite nature of money in different ways
Korea about 10 20 years ago
they decided that they wanted to do
economic upliftment for the majority of
their people so what did they do they
took a look at America and they said I
reckon we contact we can take on their
car industry and we can take on their IT
industry have you ever heard of Samsung
yeah have you ever heard of any of the
Korean car brands yeah Hyundai and
what's the other one Kia and they are
absolutely conquering the world right
now because what they've decided to do
is to grow now other countries around
the world and in fact South Africa is a
prime example we go oh there's a finite
amount of money so if we want to make
some people rich what are we going to do
if we're going to take from others
rather than growing the entire pool
bring your skill grow the country we
need entrepreneurs we often talk about
how much we need jobs
you can't falsely create a job my next
question to you is why the heck would
you want a job you can't get wealthy in
a job but that's what we're taught as
middle-class people we're taught be like
everyone else get a good safe job ok
we'll talk about that one in just a
moment as well number three represent
yourself represent yourself there's a
fantastic book and when I'm king of the
world I'm going to make it mandatory
reading for everyone it's called
outliers by Malcolm Gladwell anyone here
read that
yeah I highly recommended Malcolm
Gladwell outliers he talks about the
difference between people who fail and
succeed in anything and he talks about
how in wealthy families they teach their
children something very different to
what is taught in middle class and
poorer families and it's just how to
interact with Authority the middle
classes and poorer people are taught to
fear Authority and it's industrial
revolution thinking you've got to fear
the guy who runs the factory because he
owns your life yeah and it goes like
this let's take a practical example they
do this one in the book he says you're
taking your child to the dentist the
middle-class family will teach the child
that the dentist is God he has studied
for eight years and he knows everything
there is to know you as the child must
shut up sit down keep quiet
and even if it hurts don't cry just wait
for it to be over do whatever he tells
you to do now in wealthy families they
approach the exact same situation
completely differently driving to the
dentist's office they tell the child the
dentist is your friend he has studied
for eight years so that he can serve you
properly how's that Hey the dentist is a
resource that you can use if you have
any questions about your mouth about
your teeth about anything that you want
to know there you must ask the dentist
because it's his job to help you now
take that kind of thinking that's a
simple example going to the dentist take
that kind of thinking and amplify it
over the next 20 years which of those
two kids is going to do well in life
you've got one who's taught to fear
Authority shut up keep your voice down
don't make waves and the other one who's
taught the world is there for you to
utilize it's all resources you can use
it to your own ends imagine the
difference that that would make
represent yourself and we need to teach
our children to represent themselves as
well we have been conned into an
industrial revolution myth that says
authorities in charge and knows best
you must shut up and do what you're told
you must be a cog in a system
and as long as you are doing your job
perfectly and not making waves you'll be
fine
that thinking is a hundred years
outdated we cannot teach it any longer
number three number four inspired ideas
this is one of my favorites as you go
about building your career there are the
things that you need to do on a day to
day basis that slowly gradually move you
up that curve toward wealth and if you
keep doing them slowly and consistently
and gradually every single day
ultimately your life is going to improve
and you must do those things however
from time to time we get that one
inspired idea that crazy thought that
thing that pops into our heads are we go
what if and it's those ideas which in
one go can add an extra zero to your
income you must have them you must act
on them I'll give you a simple practical
example in 2006 I had a book published
on public speaking and it went through a
traditional publisher in Cape Town it
went into the bookstores and sold for
about a hundred and fifty R and a book
of which I got a trans 75 that's how
much the author actually gets still I
was really chuffed to have this book
published and it's a bit of credibility
for me as a speaker and it did bring in
some money now one of my professional
speaker friends said Doug don't do it
that way the next time you write a book
publish it yourself you pay for the
printing you pay for everything and sure
it's a bit of money up front
but after that you can sell the book at
a complete profit and I had this
inspired idea I thought wait a minute
what if you took that one step further
what if you got somebody else to pay for
the book so I literally walked in the
front door of one of my biggest clients
old mutual fair Bain Capital and I spoke
to one of the directors and I said how
do you feel about giving me a hundred
and fifty thousand Rand
two minutes later after he'd said yes we
were discussing his next yachting
holiday I took the chance I tried and it
worked he paid for a thousand copies of
two separate books and I've been selling
them ever since no money down every book
that I sell is pure profit margin hey
you're starting to see how like thinking
differently means different levels of
income you can get a salary at the end
of the month or you can do things for
yourself and generate your own income
with inspired ideas now that's just a
small one but that brought in firstly it
meant I didn't have to pay a hundred and
fifty thousand rand and then beyond that
it meant something like three four four
five hundred thousand rands worth of
book sales over the years and that's
just one small thing that made a massive
impact on my life but I had to represent
myself I had to have the idea I had to
walk through the door and just have the
gumption to try to ask to not be a cog
in a system that just does its function
perfectly to be a human being with a
face and a voice and thoughts creative
ideas and an opinion and that can change
the scale of your income that's number
four number five number five is an
abstract idea leaving the ranks of the
poor may mean leaving the ranks of the
poor that makes sense
get will in a moment a while ago I was
driving past a particularly poor area it
was one of these places where on the
side of the road you see these dogs with
the sort of ribs sticking out and I mean
it's all dust and poverty and hardship
and you know I look at that sort of
thing in it it saddens me that human
beings still have to live under
conditions like that here you think
about it as a species we're at the level
where we're each of us I mean how many
people around the room are holding
personal computers in their own hands in
the form of an own or an iPad or
whatever the case might be we have that
kind of technology we send satellites
out into space we are able to take a
photograph of Earth from millions of
miles away and then send it back through
the void
and look at that picture we have
astonishing levels of achievement and
yet we still have families who don't
have enough to eat every day
that's awful now dry I happen to be on
my way to a conference where I was
speaking about an entrepreneurial idea
how to make money and I thought to
myself just a mental exercise if I was
stripped of all of the stuff that I use
every day the suit the car the equipment
the bits and pieces there the toys if I
was stripped of all of that and just
left with my knowledge my wits and my
education and put into this scenario
living in abject poverty could I get
back out could I get back out and back
to my own life what do you think and
could you yeah okay most of the people
around this room are kind of saying yes
now that's an interesting thought let's
take that thought one step further if I
had to take a high net worth individual
someone who does Drive the Ferrari the
Lamborghini someone with their own
private helicopter with their own
business whatever the case might be and
I transplanted them into your life do
you think they would be able to get back
out if we say yes to that then what
we're saying is the gap between where
you are and where that person is is up
here and then a horrifying thought but
at the same time it represents hope
because it means it can be done it means
that the thought is out there the ideas
are out there the knowledge the
education is available it can be done
leaving the ranks of the poor however
may mean leaving the ranks of the poor
my thought process went like this I
thought maybe I'd start up a small
company something that doesn't doesn't
require a lot of startup capital maybe a
little store maybe I'd get other people
to work for me and then I kind of
stopped enough so I thought to myself
that's not what I do the first thing I
do is to physically leave and go
somewhere else
why because often in situations like
that the thinking is depressed
and it's not it's not to point fingers
or to point blame I mean I've been in a
family that has gone through extreme
poverty but when you've had generations
of poverty it's almost impossible to
believe it's possible the thinking
becomes depressed there's a speaker in
the States these days who has an
interesting concept and I believe it he
says you are likely to be about as
wealthy and about as successful as the
average of the five people closest to
you think about that for a second who
are your closest five it's likely to be
probably something like mom dad best
friend boss teacher something down those
lines
chances are it's those people how
wealthy are they I'm sorry to ask the
question but apparently those stats bear
out because what happens is we get
involved in an ecosystem of thinking and
we all affect one another with our level
of aspiration a level of ideas our
thinking about work and wealth and we
all Everage each other out there's
something you can do about this one you
don't have to dump your mom okay you
don't have to dump the best friend
anything down those lines what it is
saying is we do need to associate with
highly successful individuals we need to
expose ourselves to that kind of
thinking unless we do we are not going
to lift ourselves up but the thinking is
out there and quite often people are
quite willing to be mentors friends to
share answers share ideas sometimes
they're not it's always worth asking
worth the approach you are likely to be
about as wealthy or about as successful
as the average of the five people
closest to you here's an uncomfortable
question is your state's thinking
keeping you put can you think of one
policy just one then we have in this
country that tries to help people but
actually promotes poverty anyone
social grants yeah think about it this
way around what a great idea you've got
a young mom who falls pregnant has a
couple of kids she's on her own she has
no way of earning an income so what we
do we give us some money
brilliant idea except then of course the
opposite happens you have a young woman
who goes you know what I'd like some
money some money so I'm going to become
a young mom in order to get it there is
that likely to help them to become
incredibly prosperous no is your state's
thinking keeping you poor number six
your positioning determines your pay
scale it is not the quality of your work
that determines your income you can be
the best in the world at a certain thing
and be out earned by someone who is not
the best in the world your positioning
determines your pay scale let's put this
in very simple terms if you're the
celebrity of your industry you're going
to out-earn the non celebrity of your
industry even if that guy's better at it
than you
let's take for example anyone here watch
the cooking show with Nigella Lawson
seen her on TV yeah yeah absolutely
Nigella Lawson do you reckon she is one
of the top five chefs in the world no I
don't think so
do you think she's in the top hundred
mmm I don't think so do you reckon she's
in the top thousand I don't think so so
why is she out earning all of them
because she's Nigella Lawson I'll give
you another example if an unknown
speaker comes and stands in front of you
that person can put in an invoice fourth
X number of zeros at the end of an hour
of speaking Richard Branson walks into
the room and chats with you for five
minutes they will add three more zeros
to his fee it's not because he worked
harder and it's not because he's a
better speaker it's because he's Richard
Branson you need to be the icon the
expert the celebrity the big name in
your industry now here's where most
people get it wrong they say knowledge
is everything knowledge is important but
you also have to bring personality
that's what Nigella Lawson is doing she
is able to speak well in front of a
camera she's pretty she's seductive yeah
now this is all the stuff that we are
never taught as important we are taught
what's important is be a cog in a system
don't make waves function perfectly get
your job done
imagine if Nigella Lawson did that she'd
be poor all she'd ever do is cook in the
kitchen maybe earn like five bucks once
in a while yeah but because she brings
humanity to it she brings to it things
that cannot be done by a computer that
cannot be done by a system anything that
can be systematized computerised
commoditized is unvalued all we're still
teaching our kids to study IT that's a
low income future because there's like
two billion other people studying IT and
most of it will be done by the computer
itself like tomorrow that's how fast
it's moving there's at one of those
talks on Ted the inspirational talks
website where a guy says and this is
quite interesting he says the economy of
tomorrow will not be ruled by people who
have doctorates or who have studied IT
or anything technical the economy of
tomorrow will be ruled by people who did
bas and know how to think creatively
because the computer can't do that it's
the people who bring their personality
their humanity you become an icon in
their industry so it's not just about
how good you are technically at what you
do it's about being the human being to
face the voice the one we see in the
media in magazines hear on the radio are
you an icon that way you earn more
number seven this one's more for
companies but it's useful to us as well
don't fixate on the bottom line what
most companies tend to do is when they
think about their finances they put 80
percent of their energy into saving what
they have and 20 percent of their energy
into earning more we need to reverse
that saving of course is important yes
you can save yourself rich if you've got
like 150 years to live what's more
important is actually generating more
income
picture a clan of people now I want you
to just use your imaginations here let's
go back thousands of years in time we're
sitting at the outskirts of our cave we
are a plan and we're facing winter
winter is like recession winter is
trying winter is deadly to us and our
economy is made up of Buffalo we eat
them to survive we wear their coats in
order to survive this horrific winter
the hunters have been out into the field
and good news they came back with three
Buffalo but three Buffalo is not quite
enough for our entire clan to make it
through the winter we technically need
more now the thinking in the clan splits
in two we get the hunters and we get the
bean-counter in the cave and the
bean-counter says what we have to do is
take those three Buffalo and conserve
them preserve them make them last save
them so that we get through the winter
the hunters see it differently
they say no no give us one of the
Buffalo to eat and using that strength
we will go back out into the field and
we will get more Buffalo so that we can
make it through the winter
all big organizations have this split
between the bean-counter and the Buffalo
and sometimes it destroys entire
companies yeah my belief system says
this it doesn't matter how well you save
your Buffalo if you don't have enough
Buffalo saving effectively is only going
to mean you'll starve to death
slower you need more Buffalo in the
system in other words you need to put 20
percent of your energy into saving your
money and 80 percent of your energy into
generating more money that's the way we
need to think saving is important but
it's not all important middle-class
thinking says the most important thing
to do is save sure if you're going to
live for 150 years brilliant idea
number eight Randy gage the u.s. speaker
recently wrote a book called risky is
the new safe the alternative applies
safe is the new risky we've been taught
for generations
to play it safe you get a job and don't
make waves I contend that that is the
most dangerous thing that you can
possibly do because you are taking all
of your eggs and putting them in one
basket you are taking your life your
future your career your spouse your
children your medical aids your debit
orders your entire life putting them
into one basket and handing them to a
person whose first concern is not your
welfare
that sounds pretty dangerous to me also
6070 years ago people did go and get a
job and work for 4050 years and retire
safely does that happen anymore
heck no it's just not the reality most
companies these days if you've got a job
you have 31 days of safety that's it now
let's look at this differently people
say being an entrepreneur is risky being
your own boss is risky well Forbes
magazine says the only people who are
wealthy are their own bosses okay the
next thing is if you as an entrepreneur
try 10 big crazy inspired ideas and
eight of them fail you've got two of
them working now you go out there and
you try another ten big crazy inspired
ideas and again eight of them fail two
of them work now you're up to four
things that are bringing in income you
go out there ten big things eight fail
two more you're up to six different
things that are bringing in income for
myself as a speaker I now have multiple
income streams I speak I train I sell
books I sell DVDs I do media appearances
multiple streams of income much much
safer risky is the new safe safe is the
new risky and the more we buy into the
old Industrial Revolution era idea that
having a boss take care of us is safe
the greater the danger we put our own
lives in risky is the new safe safe is
the new risky I believe that risk
aversion is one of the things that
paralyzes most of the people in the
middle class your average high net worth
individual has been bankrupt three times
how scary is the idea of going bankrupt
to you yeah to them it's a matter of
course they've tried big crazy things
they've tried building up businesses and
they've uh Turley utterly failed but to
them it's only part of the process and
they do something interesting and I'd
like to invite you to do this they give
themselves permission to fail folks
today at this early stage in your career
make that commitment to yourself do
yourself a favor give yourself
permission to fail it's okay it's only a
bit of embarrassment so any bit of skin
off the knees it's only picking yourself
up and trying again they think
differently in California to what we
think here the guy here started and
started up a business and failed banks
won't touch him with a bargepole
in California the banks and the
financier seek out the people who have
tried and failed before because they
reckon that person has learnt valuable
lessons along the way give yourself
permission to fail here's a
revolutionary thought give other people
permission to laugh at you and mock you
for trying
let that be okay say I know my family's
not going to understand I know my
friends are going to laugh at me they're
going to tell me this is crazy you
should play it safe and get a job give
them permission to think that way give
them permission to laugh at you give
yourself permission to try and fail you
need the space you need the leeway be
kind to yourself my final parting
thought for today is just this you are
not separated from your goals by a
number of years you are separated from
your goals by a number of actions and
that's completely different years years
are an abstract concept that's like
saying 1020 years from now I'll be
wealthy it's not up to years it's up to
you and your actions that puts the ball
back in your hand that gives you control
that gives you the power you are not
separated from your goals by a number of
years you're separated from your goals
by a number of actions the word is as a
man thinks so is he so ladies and
gentlemen know
to think for may god bless you and may
you prosper